The establishment of the neoliberal model has increased levels of social inequality. Low income social groups are the most vulnerable to losing their sources of employment or income. In this group are the economic units based on elaboration and sale of handicrafts. This case is presented in the artisan community of black mud of the population of San Bartolo Coyotepec, Oaxaca. The diagnostic made shows the need to strengthen, diversify and complement the economic unit with another set of activities. The thesis maintains the work hypothesis that in order to overcome the risk of the disappearance of the artisanal economic unit it is necessary to leave its deficit status: it is necessary to transit to an economic unit of the simple reproduction type, to later become an economic unit of extended reproduction. There are several strategies for such a transformation, but one was identified as key: the importance of the access of social groups to microcredit under the premise of a solidarity approach and to remain economically viable. In this context, it is considered that the formation of an associative economic unit as represented by the formation of a self-saving and lending group (GAAP) can be a detonating factor to promote, value, systematize and construct social reproduction extended units with values of solidarity. In the theoretical framework, the literature is reviewed to differentiate the approach of microfinance from a neoliberal approach to a one of solidarity type. Of the latter, the attributes of the construction and proposals from the bottom stand out. The methodological proposal incorporates a participatory type of intervention. The research is supported by a theoretical revision of the solidarity economy. The results show the formation and consolidation of a GAPP. It is recognized that such a group is an innovative and viable microfinance strategy. The proposal is contrasted with other experiences at the international and national levels. Associativity and self-management are two attributes that stand out. Research brings lessons to solidarity economy in the debate of alternatives from below and outside the logic of capital. These last two relevant points in the formulation and proposal debate linked to the management of solidarity development projects