The overall objective of this research was to analyze the ability of Solidarity Mutual to offer microfinance products adapted to beneficiaries and to contribute to strengthen their entrepreneurial capacity, with a view to improving their living conditions in underprivileged and excluded communities. Formal microfinance in Ituri, especially agricultural zone. To reach such objective and to carry out these analyzes, an approach was adopted which is divided into four stages: To identify and analyze the contribution of Solidarity Mutual, the implementation of their social mission to improve the living conditions of beneficiaries; To evaluate the effectiveness of MUSO's microfinance services to meet the financial needs of the poor; To evaluate the capacity of the microfinance services offered by Solidarity Mutual to help promote of beneficiary members entrepreneurship; To determine the level of economic insertion (or performance) of MUSOs among poor people in Ituri province. The analytical model used in this research is based on a combination of quantitative and qualitative approaches. Two sources were distinguished, these are surveys and accounting. For primary data, collection was made to MUSO beneficiaries in three of the five Ituri territories. Our universe of analysis is made up of MUSO members, and our sample is simple random based on the lists, and its size is 700 beneficiary members surveyed MUSO sites Bunia, Irumu, Aru and Djugu. The approaches used made it possible to carry out analyzes which generated the following results: At the first concern, the results indicated that access to the MUSO microfinance services helped to improve their socio-economic living conditions in 77% of cases, whether it was a satisfaction of a social need (medical care, schooling of children, etc.), or a need for financing income-generating activities. The results also indicated that beneficiaries of microfinance services were satisfied in 69%, because these services met their expectations. Concerning the second concern, the results indicated that MUSO offers adapted services to beneficiaries, with 58.0% of female members having a majority and 74.6% having married status. The main job was agriculture in 32.6%, and small business in 23.3% of cases. However, to access the credit service, it was enough to be a member and to be in order of contribution in 63,3% of cases. The amounts requested were in the range of $100-200 in the majority. The credits received were mainly intended for the financing of agriculture (34.3%) and small business in 26.6% of cases. The reimbursement is done monthly in 75% of the cases. Regarding the third concern, the results indicated that the microcredit obtained made it possible to finance entrepreneurship in 66.6% and 81% of members confirmed that the volume of their business changed positively because of microcredit, and this allowed them to improve their existing income-generating activities in 52% of cases, while 45% of members have created a new revenue-generating activity. This means that members' activities increased in 77.4% of cases for most of them. Finally, the fourth concern was whether the Solidarity Mutual managed to integrate economically into Ituri community, the results were as follows: the correlation coefficients indicated a strong relationship. The evolution of both the MUSOs and the different portfolios was positive. Model fitting equations: Y = exp (4.4401 + 0.120649 * X) for MUSO, Y = exp (4.089 + 0.400454 * X) for the savings portfolio, Y = exp (3.77833 + 0.542305 * X), for the credit portfolio, were established to serve as a prediction. To respond to our main concern, being part of microfinance services of Solidarity Mutual, has allowed the improvement of members living standard. This experience can thus serve as a basis for setting up other large-scale financing and insurance mechanisms in disadvantaged areas through formal structures.