Savings and Internal Lending Communities (SILCs) are a type of informal microfinance mechanism adapted in many low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) to improve financial resources for poor and rural communities. Although SILCs are often paired with other health and non-health-related interventions, few studies have examined SILCs in the context of maternal health. This study examined the association between SILC participation, household wealth and financial preparedness for birth. The study also examined the association between sex and financial preparedness for birth. A secondary analysis was conducted on individual survey data collected from SILC participants in two rural districts of Zambia between October 2017 and February 2018. A convenience sample of 600 participants (Lundazi: n = 297; Mansa: n = 303) was analysed. Descriptive analyses were run to examine SILC participation and household wealth. Multiple binary logistic regression models were fit to assess the unadjusted and adjusted relationship between (1) SILC participation and household wealth, (2) SILC participation and financial preparedness for birth and (3) sex and financial preparedness for birth. The results show that SILC participation led to an average increase of 7.32 items of the 13 household wealth items. SILC participants who had their most recent childbirth after joining SILCs were more likely to be financially prepared for birth [adjusted odds ratio (AOR): 2.99; 95% confidence interval (95% CI): 1.70-5.26; P < 0.001] than participants who had their most recent childbirth before joining SILCs. Females were more likely to be financially prepared for birth than males if they had their most recent birth before joining an SILC (AOR: 1.79; 95% CI: 1.16-2.66; P < 0.01). SILC participation is shown to increase household wealth and financial preparedness for birth for both men and women. SILCs are a promising intervention that can help poor and rural populations by increasing financial resources and financially preparing parents for birth.