We investigate the influence that linkages with formal financial institutions have on the performance of savings groups. Applying a difference-in-differences methodology to a matched sample of data on 3,234 savings groups from 31 countries, we contribute to the literature by investigating the differential effect resulting from a credit linkage and a savings linkage. Overall, results indicate that a savings linkage is beneficial to the groups as it enhances group performance in terms of increased savings per member and return on savings. There is, however, a reduction in the fund utilization rate following a savings linkage. By contrast, a credit linkage largely has a negative effect on the performance of the groups as observed in a reduction in the savings per member and return on savings following the credit linkage. The findings offer guidance for international development organizations, policy makers, and banks currently recommending bank linkage to savings groups.

Financial education has become a global policy recommendation for reducing negative economic behavior resulting from financial illiteracy. We investigate the effect of financial education tailored to benefit individual participants and delivered through informal grassroots financial associations. While research on the effects of financial education normally focuses on possible individual benefits, we focus on possible effects at both the individual and group levels. Using a large, matched sample of data on 2,364 savings groups from 9 African countries, results obtained from random effects regression analysis show that on an individual level, the savings per member increase. At the group level, the fund utilization rate and return on savings increase, suggesting that the groups become more active in leveraging the members’ savings in order to generate welfare for the members. The study highlights that exploiting teachable moments, coupled with peer learning that takes place in the savings group context, offers a good alternative channel for delivery of financial education.

There is an increasing push among development actors to engage men in genderfocused development efforts. This is also observed in initiatives organizing economically poor individuals into groups where members save and borrow among each other. While such savings groups were originally tailored for women, we now observe an upsurge of male members. Yet, little is known about how male engagement affects certain core elements of the savings groups model. This study investigates the influence of male membership on the group’s profit generating capacity. Further, the study aims to understand if this relationship is moderated by the level of gender equality in the country that the group is located. Drawing on random effects regression analysis on a sample of data pertaining to 81,853 savings groups from 30 countries, the results show that the group’s profit generating capacity reduces as the percentage of male members increases. Moreover, the results further show that gender equality of the country in which the group is located moderates the observed relationship.